hello so I'm gonna talk about IP FS and
geeks so first of all what is ipfs good
at well it's pretty good at giving acts
given us access to data any kind of data
right it tries to enhance access to
knowledge in general and that's very
important but what about generated data
what about a source when it's being
complaining to binary what about this
binary alright when you get it over IP
FS when you get a darker image what's
inside of it how can you trust it and
that's difficult actually and that's
where geeks come in comes in so
all right
cool yeah so in short and Geeks is a
functional package manager so if you've
heard of Nicks it's quite similar
functional package manager means that
for the same inputs taken twice it will
produce the same output bit by bit
so from source the same resulting binary
with possibly so gigs really tries to
focus focuses actually on reports
ability and ability which means that it
really tries hard to give us full
transparency over the the complete graph
of software however that's pretty
amazing right so then I want to trust
you that sorry but compiling a program
is not always pleasant you know it takes
time it takes a lot of computing
resources so usually what you do on a
mini distribution you would get the
precompiled binary so that's very
convenient that's a lot of people this
is very important so we we actually
distribute those binaries with geeks as
well
we call them substitutes and we store
them in a geek store which is the
location on the file system so so far so
good
the problem is that this distribution is
well the traditional way you go with the
HTTP servers and it's not always so fast
depends which problem what you are it's
very demanding on infrastructure so
recently in 2019 we start using CDN
content via networks and what that helps
a lot right but still it's still a lot
of farms right and after we then we are
the Nike FS conference so hey why not
using a BFS for that so makes a lot of
sense and that's where we decide to try
leveraging TFS in gigs to distribute
packages that would be fantastic
and I think honestly it makes a lot of
sense and the two projects would benefit
from one another on one hand I professed
packages for for geeks but also the
source that's quite important because
it's a fraction of package management
which means that we only get to trust
the software if we have the complete
graph but stripe our graph of our
software and if link is missing if a
source is missing we we like this trust
right it's all moot so if I think could
really help with saving the source I
think now on the other hand geeks could
also have ipfs doing what ipfs doesn't
really do which is bring transparency to
generate the data that's really where
we're geeks sounds very strong so I
think the two projects together could go
really far now what can we do now
first of all the first thing we can do
is start distributing packages for geeks
of ipfs as I mentioned so for instance
at least compares a package or she's the
first one to compile it ever and the
second she's done with it
Bob wants to start a package as well
well instead of competing in himself can
get it directly from Elias and that will
only cost the time of the network
transaction pretty neat right so that's
beautifully a package distribution
basically if you're a little bit deeper
we could stop thinking like like
dreaming deep and start thinking what
about you know I mentioned this gig
store where you store all your the
result of your computations order of the
packages what about getting rid of this
and only using ipfs to sorting like a
sort of a worldly universe or gig store
and installing a program would basically
amount to just pinning it I'll be quite
communion simple quick now if we go even
deeper
what is package compilation basically
it's just a special case of computation
isn't it so we could start thinking what
about storing the computation of
everything
scientific mistake that scientific
calculus like you you want to run a very
deep very intensive scientific program
that you got to run for a few days
what if someone else and you understand
your planet wants to run it the same
thing with the same input well you could
actually just fetch a result from the
other person who had already computed it
and in many ways Keeks enables you to do
that you can actually do it with
everything with every computation it's
very Universal in many ways and I'll
finish with the two things that really
stuck with me when I looked at the road
map for ipfs two items there one is a
package manager another one is an OS and
I really would like to believe that
geeks could fulfill those two go thank
you very much
[Applause]